prompts/postmarket/generate-daily-journal.md, before:

---
title: Generate Daily Journal  
description: Narrative journal prompt to reflect on mindset, clarity, emotion, and decisions after each session  
tags: [postmarket, reflection, review]  
author: Simon Plant  
last_updated: 2025-05-05  
version: 1.0  
category: postmarket  
usage: Run after market close or before bed for narrative-level mindset tracking  
status: stable  
requires: []  
linked_outputs: [generate-kb-update.md, export-journal-entry.md]  
input_format: markdown  
output_format: markdown  
ai_enabled: true  
---

## JOURNAL ENTRY GENERATOR — PROMPT

**Purpose:** Generate a clean, markdown-format daily journal entry based on:
- Market behavior and context
- Trader’s mental, physical, and emotional state
- Observed themes and self-regulation quality
- Summary of execution quality

---

### INPUT FIELDS
- **Date**: (YYYY-MM-DD)
- **Market Regime**: (trend/chop/vol spike/news/event)
- **Macro Context**: (FOMC, earnings, war, etc.)
- **Bias/Focus**: Bullish/Bearish/Mixed/None
- **Emotional State**: Cautious / Confident / Frantic / Flat / etc.
- **Energy + Focus**: (Low/Medium/High)
- **Intentional Actions Taken**: (e.g., cut size, followed SOP)
- **Key Reflection**: What stood out most about today?

---

### OUTPUT STRUCTURE
```markdown
---
title: Daily Journal — YYYY-MM-DD
description: End-of-day reflection on psychological performance and market behavior  
tags: [journal, log, mindset]
author: Simon Plant
last_updated: YYYY-MM-DD
version: 1.0
category: log-template
status: draft
---

## Market & Regime Context
- Regime: ___
- Context: ___
- SPX / QQQ / VIX: ___

## Emotional State
- Mood: ___
- Focus: ___
- Energy: ___

## Observations
- ___
- ___

## Execution
- What went well: ___
- Where I drifted: ___
- Did I trade my plan? ___

## Daily Lesson
> "___"

Commit message:

chore(usage): standardize all `usage:` fields across system and prompt files
- Rewrote 25+ usage fields using structured format:
  "Run [when]. Produces [output]. Consumes [inputs/context]."
- Updated: premarket, intraday, postmarket, system, and main controller prompts
- Fixed misfiled `main-controller.md` (not in system/)
- Completed missing usage for README, KB, market regimes
- Ensures clarity, improves AI routing, and aligns prompt UX across the stack

prompts/postmarket/generate-daily-journal.md, after:

---
title: Generate Daily Journal  
description: Narrative journal prompt to reflect on mindset, clarity, emotion, and decisions after each session  
tags: [postmarket, reflection, review]  
author: Simon Plant  
last_updated: 2025-05-05  
version: 1.0  
category: postmarket  
usage: Run after market close or before bed. Produces narrative reflection on mindset, emotion, and execution. Consumes memory of session, trade context, and emotional experience.
status: stable  
requires: []  
linked_outputs: [generate-kb-update.md, export-journal-entry.md]  
input_format: markdown  
output_format: markdown  
ai_enabled: true  
---

## JOURNAL ENTRY GENERATOR — PROMPT

**Purpose:** Generate a clean, markdown-format daily journal entry based on:
- Market behavior and context
- Trader’s mental, physical, and emotional state
- Observed themes and self-regulation quality
- Summary of execution quality

---

### INPUT FIELDS
- **Date**: (YYYY-MM-DD)
- **Market Regime**: (trend/chop/vol spike/news/event)
- **Macro Context**: (FOMC, earnings, war, etc.)
- **Bias/Focus**: Bullish/Bearish/Mixed/None
- **Emotional State**: Cautious / Confident / Frantic / Flat / etc.
- **Energy + Focus**: (Low/Medium/High)
- **Intentional Actions Taken**: (e.g., cut size, followed SOP)
- **Key Reflection**: What stood out most about today?

---

### OUTPUT STRUCTURE
```markdown
---
title: Daily Journal — YYYY-MM-DD
description: End-of-day reflection on psychological performance and market behavior  
tags: [journal, log, mindset]
author: Simon Plant
last_updated: YYYY-MM-DD
version: 1.0
category: log-template
status: draft
---

## Market & Regime Context
- Regime: ___
- Context: ___
- SPX / QQQ / VIX: ___

## Emotional State
- Mood: ___
- Focus: ___
- Energy: ___

## Observations
- ___
- ___

## Execution
- What went well: ___
- Where I drifted: ___
- Did I trade my plan? ___

## Daily Lesson
> "___"
