prompts/postmarket/generate-daily-trade-log.md, before:

---
title: Generate Daily Trade Log  
description: Creates structured markdown output of trades, flags, and setups for daily journaling and scorekeeping  
tags: [postmarket, log, reflection, review]  
author: Simon Plant  
last_updated: 2025-05-05  
version: 1.1  
category: postmarket  
usage: Run after each session to structure your daily execution log  
status: stable  
requires: [trading-charter.md, trading-behaviors-kb.md]  
linked_outputs: [daily-performance-debrief.md, generate-kb-update.md]  
input_format: markdown  
output_format: markdown  
ai_enabled: true  
---

## TRADE LOG EXPORTER — PROMPT

**Purpose:** Generate a Markdown file for structured trade-level data, excluding journal or behavioral KB notes.

---

### INPUT FIELDS
- Date (YYYY-MM-DD)
- List of trades with entries, exits, instrument, sizing, rationale
- Realized/unrealized PnL
- Time in trade, stop levels, patterns hit

---

### OUTPUT FORMAT
JSON-style embedded log in Markdown file:
```json
{
  "trading_day": { ... },
  "trades": [ ... ],
  "daily_performance": { ... }
}

Commit message:

chore(usage): standardize all `usage:` fields across system and prompt files
- Rewrote 25+ usage fields using structured format:
  "Run [when]. Produces [output]. Consumes [inputs/context]."
- Updated: premarket, intraday, postmarket, system, and main controller prompts
- Fixed misfiled `main-controller.md` (not in system/)
- Completed missing usage for README, KB, market regimes
- Ensures clarity, improves AI routing, and aligns prompt UX across the stack

prompts/postmarket/generate-daily-trade-log.md, after:

---
title: Generate Daily Trade Log  
description: Creates structured markdown output of trades, flags, and setups for daily journaling and scorekeeping  
tags: [postmarket, log, reflection, review]  
author: Simon Plant  
last_updated: 2025-05-05  
version: 1.1  
category: postmarket  
usage: Run at session end to document trades and behavior flags. Produces a markdown log of trades, outcomes, scores, and lessons. Consumes entry/exit data and Copilot context.
status: stable  
requires: [trading-charter.md, trading-behaviors-kb.md]  
linked_outputs: [daily-performance-debrief.md, generate-kb-update.md]  
input_format: markdown  
output_format: markdown  
ai_enabled: true  
---

## TRADE LOG EXPORTER — PROMPT

**Purpose:** Generate a Markdown file for structured trade-level data, excluding journal or behavioral KB notes.

---

### INPUT FIELDS
- Date (YYYY-MM-DD)
- List of trades with entries, exits, instrument, sizing, rationale
- Realized/unrealized PnL
- Time in trade, stop levels, patterns hit

---

### OUTPUT FORMAT
JSON-style embedded log in Markdown file:
```json
{
  "trading_day": { ... },
  "trades": [ ... ],
  "daily_performance": { ... }
}
